Title: Building Trust in Modern Computing Platforms


Abstract: User interaction with software systems is an integral part of the modern computing platform. Trusted interaction, specifically trusted path, remains a major challenge as more and more safety and security-critical systems are moved to software as a service (SaaS) architecture where they are accessible over UI-rich web environments. Ever-increasing complexity in software and hardware makes these platforms vulnerable to a myriad of attacks. New technologies such as trusted execution environments or TEEs reduce the attack surface by limiting the trusted codebase (TCB). However, TEEs suffer from a vast number of challenges. Moreover, the hyper-disaggregated computation model poses a significant challenge to the TEE that considers CPUs to be the platform's sole executioner. 
My research looks into the problem of trusted interaction and investigates their fundamental security properties that were not addressed in the existing literature. This not only provides a baseline for secure, trusted path systems but also reveals attacks on the existing system. Then we will look into the trust on first use (ToFU) property of remote attestation of TEEs and see how the distance bounding mechanism enables us to bring identity to a platform. Lastly, I will discuss how we can address the challenges of secure interaction considering distributed TEEs. We introduce platform-wide enclaves that combine the applications, drives, and external devices to configurable and attestable domains where the users can check the access control policies of these devices.


Bio: Aritra Dhar is a Ph.D. candidate in ETH Zurich in the system security group advised by Prof. Srdjan Capkun. His research focuses on trusted computing, trusted user interactions, and secure architecture. During his Ph.D., he also looked into other security-related problems such as anonymous communication, collateral-based fast off-chain settlement of cryptocurrency transactions, memory-optimized monitoring, etc. Before joining his Ph.D., Aritra was a research engineer in Xerox Research, where he focuses on privacy-preserving recommendation systems. His research has been published in USENIX Security, NDSS, NSDI, IEEE S&P magazine, RV, CODASPY, etc.